research.md, before:

---
layout: page
permalink: /research/index.html
title: Research
tags: [daniel varon, methane, satellites, machine learning, emissions, research, sentinel-2, sentinel]
---

### Quantifying individual NOx point sources from space

We show how Landsat and Sentinel-2 can map and quantify NO2 plumes from individual power plants at 10-60 m resolution. See <a href="https://acmg.seas.harvard.edu/sites/projects.iq.harvard.edu/files/acmg/files/varon_2023_submitted.pdf" target="_blank">our preprint</a> for the retrieval algorithm and demonstrations.

![daniel varon NO2 NOx Landsat Sentinel-2 satellite harvard plume no2thumb](../images/no2-thumb.png){:height="250px" width="250px"}

<br>
<br>

### Observing methane from geostationary orbit

We used NOAA's Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellites (GOES) to monitor the 5-minute evolution of extreme methane releases from oil and gas infrastructure in Mexico and the US. Check out <a href="https://www.pnas.org/doi/10.1073/pnas.2310797120" target="_blank">our paper</a> for the full story.

![daniel varon methane GOES satellite harvard plume goesthumb](../images/goes-thumb.png){:height="250px" width="250px"}

<br>
<br>

### Continuous weekly monitoring of Permian Basin methane emissions with TROPOMI

We used a Kalman filter to quantify weekly regional methane emissions from the Permian Basin, the largest oil-producing basin in the United States. See <a href="https://doi.org/10.5194/acp-23-7503-2023" target="_blank">our paper</a> for more information.

![daniel varon methane tropomi satellite harvard plume kfpermian](../images/kf_permian_image.png){:height="250px" width="250px"}

<br>
<br>

### Enabling easy access to analytical inversions of TROPOMI methane observations on the cloud

We built a user-friendly cloud-computing tool for researchers and stakeholders to estimate high-resolution regional methane emissions using TROPOMI satellite data: Integrated Methane Inversion (IMI). See <a href="https://imi.seas.harvard.edu/" target="_blank">the IMI website</a> for details.

![daniel varon methane tropomi satellite harvard plume imilogo](../images/imi_logo_small.png){:height="250px" width="250px"}

<br>
<br>

### Monitoring methane point sources with multispectral Sentinel-2 satellite observations

We showed how the Sentinel-2 twin satellites (and Landsat) can detect and quantify anomalously large methane point sources. See <a href="https://amt.copernicus.org/articles/14/2771/2021/amt-14-2771-2021.html" target="_blank">our paper</a> in AMT for the details.

![daniel varon methane sentinel-2 sentinel satellite harvard plume thumb7](../images/thumb7_projects.png){:height="250px" width="250px"}

<br>
<br>

### Quantifying methane emissions from individual coal mine vents from space

We estimated time-averaged methane emissions from individual underground coal mines by aggregating GHGSat-D observations in time. Check out our [2020 ES&T paper](https://pubs.acs.org/doi/abs/10.1021/acs.est.0c01213) for the full story. 

![daniel varon methane satellite harvard plume sentinel-2 sentinel thumb2](../images/thumb2_projects.png){:height="250px" width="250px"}

<br>
<br>

### Satellite discovery of large methane point sources from oil and gas production

We discovered massive methane point sources in an oil/gas field using the GHGSat-D and TROPOMI satellite instruments. Read more about it in our <a href="https://agupubs.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1029/2019GL083798" target="_blank">2019 GRL paper</a>.

![daniel varon methane satellite harvard plume sentinel-2 sentinel thumb4](../images/thumb4_projects.png){:height="250px" width="250px"}

<br>
<br>

### Deep learning for detecting methane plumes in noisy satellite imagery

We're training convolutional neural networks to localize methane plumes in noisy satellite data. Here's a first <a href="https://acmg.seas.harvard.edu/sites/projects.iq.harvard.edu/files/acmg/files/bruno2023.pdf" target="_blank">preprint</a> on a U-Net algorithm to detect plumes in GHGSat data.

![daniel varon methane satellite harvard plume sentinel-2 sentinel thumb3](../images/thumb3_projects.png){:height="250px" width="250px"}

<br>
<br>

### Algorithms for quantifying methane point sources from space

We developed algorithms for retrieving emission rates from fine-resolution satellite observations of atmospheric methane plumes. Read more about them in our <a href="https://doi.org/10.5194/amt-11-5673-2018" target="_blank">2018 AMT paper</a>.

![daniel varon methane satellite harvard plume sentinel-2 sentinel thumb1](../images/thumb1_projects.png){:height="250px" width="250px"}

<br>
<br>

### Early research projects

&#10146; [Star forming galaxies in a merging galaxy supercluster](http://www.varon.org/research/astro/)<br>
&#10146; [Temperature variability and climate](http://www.varon.org/research/climate/)

Commit message:

update status of no2 pnas paper

research.md, after:

---
layout: page
permalink: /research/index.html
title: Research
tags: [daniel varon, methane, satellites, machine learning, emissions, research, sentinel-2, sentinel]
---

### Quantifying individual NOx point sources from space

We show how Landsat and Sentinel-2 can map and quantify NO2 plumes from individual power plants at 10-60 m resolution. Our paper documenting the retrieval algorithm and demonstrations has been accepted for publication in <em>PNAS</em>.

![daniel varon NO2 NOx Landsat Sentinel-2 satellite harvard plume no2thumb](../images/no2-thumb.png){:height="250px" width="250px"}

<br>
<br>

### Observing methane from geostationary orbit

We used NOAA's Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellites (GOES) to monitor the 5-minute evolution of extreme methane releases from oil and gas infrastructure in Mexico and the US. Check out <a href="https://www.pnas.org/doi/10.1073/pnas.2310797120" target="_blank">our paper</a> for the full story.

![daniel varon methane GOES satellite harvard plume goesthumb](../images/goes-thumb.png){:height="250px" width="250px"}

<br>
<br>

### Continuous weekly monitoring of Permian Basin methane emissions with TROPOMI

We used a Kalman filter to quantify weekly regional methane emissions from the Permian Basin, the largest oil-producing basin in the United States. See <a href="https://doi.org/10.5194/acp-23-7503-2023" target="_blank">our paper</a> for more information.

![daniel varon methane tropomi satellite harvard plume kfpermian](../images/kf_permian_image.png){:height="250px" width="250px"}

<br>
<br>

### Enabling easy access to analytical inversions of TROPOMI methane observations on the cloud

We built a user-friendly cloud-computing tool for researchers and stakeholders to estimate high-resolution regional methane emissions using TROPOMI satellite data: Integrated Methane Inversion (IMI). See <a href="https://imi.seas.harvard.edu/" target="_blank">the IMI website</a> for details.

![daniel varon methane tropomi satellite harvard plume imilogo](../images/imi_logo_small.png){:height="250px" width="250px"}

<br>
<br>

### Monitoring methane point sources with multispectral Sentinel-2 satellite observations

We showed how the Sentinel-2 twin satellites (and Landsat) can detect and quantify anomalously large methane point sources. See <a href="https://amt.copernicus.org/articles/14/2771/2021/amt-14-2771-2021.html" target="_blank">our paper</a> in AMT for the details.

![daniel varon methane sentinel-2 sentinel satellite harvard plume thumb7](../images/thumb7_projects.png){:height="250px" width="250px"}

<br>
<br>

### Quantifying methane emissions from individual coal mine vents from space

We estimated time-averaged methane emissions from individual underground coal mines by aggregating GHGSat-D observations in time. Check out our [2020 ES&T paper](https://pubs.acs.org/doi/abs/10.1021/acs.est.0c01213) for the full story. 

![daniel varon methane satellite harvard plume sentinel-2 sentinel thumb2](../images/thumb2_projects.png){:height="250px" width="250px"}

<br>
<br>

### Satellite discovery of large methane point sources from oil and gas production

We discovered massive methane point sources in an oil/gas field using the GHGSat-D and TROPOMI satellite instruments. Read more about it in our <a href="https://agupubs.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1029/2019GL083798" target="_blank">2019 GRL paper</a>.

![daniel varon methane satellite harvard plume sentinel-2 sentinel thumb4](../images/thumb4_projects.png){:height="250px" width="250px"}

<br>
<br>

### Deep learning for detecting methane plumes in noisy satellite imagery

We're training convolutional neural networks to localize methane plumes in noisy satellite data. Here's a first <a href="https://acmg.seas.harvard.edu/sites/projects.iq.harvard.edu/files/acmg/files/bruno2023.pdf" target="_blank">preprint</a> on a U-Net algorithm to detect plumes in GHGSat data.

![daniel varon methane satellite harvard plume sentinel-2 sentinel thumb3](../images/thumb3_projects.png){:height="250px" width="250px"}

<br>
<br>

### Algorithms for quantifying methane point sources from space

We developed algorithms for retrieving emission rates from fine-resolution satellite observations of atmospheric methane plumes. Read more about them in our <a href="https://doi.org/10.5194/amt-11-5673-2018" target="_blank">2018 AMT paper</a>.

![daniel varon methane satellite harvard plume sentinel-2 sentinel thumb1](../images/thumb1_projects.png){:height="250px" width="250px"}

<br>
<br>

### Early research projects

&#10146; [Star forming galaxies in a merging galaxy supercluster](http://www.varon.org/research/astro/)<br>
&#10146; [Temperature variability and climate](http://www.varon.org/research/climate/)
